The final steps for the server-side implementation are to
implement the controller and service that tie appointment UI
requests to the persistence layer.
Once again, to keep focus on JHipster,
I'm just going to show you how to drop the code in from a GitHub repository.
I'll start by displaying the appointment service class.
This is a very simple implementation that acts as a passthrough from
the REST controller layer to the persistence layer.
Then, I'll be displaying the appointment REST controller class.
This controller exposes two endpoints for getting and posting appointment data.
In this class,
I'll take the opportunity to leverage user features
provided to us as part of JHipster generation.
Before we dive in,
let's take a look at how JHipster configured the
application to support these new classes.
I'm displaying the Spring Security Configuration
class that was generated by JHipster.
You can find this class in the package com.
Pluralsight.
patientportal.
config.
The key line that I'm going to focus on is the antMatchers line
found in the configure method of the class.
This antMatcher performs a wildcard match on API endpoints to ensure that,
at a minimum, the user is authenticated before they can access them.
I point this out as we will be adding another
endpoint as part of the REST controller.
Very commonly, I've heard developers as how they can protect their API calls.
Here, JHipster has already done it for us as part of the scaffolding.
Let's look at the next configuration of relevance.
I'm displaying the definition for the Spring Web
Configuration class generated by JHipster.
It's found in the package com.
Pluralsight.
patientportal.
config.
There's quite a bit defined in this class,
including customizations of the servlet engine,
a CorsFilter, and metrics.
However, most of it is standard Spring configuration.
The reason for showing this is simply so that you're aware of it when you're
creating controllers and other web component features.
Now, let's add the service class to the application.
I've once again opened up Eclipse,
and we're going to copy the file AppointmentService,
that's found in the GitHub project under the folder
java/com/Pluralsight/patientportal/service.
We'll go back up to the project,
and I'll paste it into the corresponding package.
Okay our AppointmentService is now in the project, let's talk about it a bit.
I'm showing the AppointmentService class that we just copied over,
I've stripped out some of the code and comments to focus on the
key behaviors that are found in the service.
In the first two lines,
note that I've annotated this class as a service to be
managed as a component by Spring.
And, annotated the class with Transactional,
as it will leverage Spring's transaction support.
The first method I've created is save.
It will persist an appointment to the database using the appointment
repository that we just previously copied over.
The second method finds all appointments by the logged in user's ID.
Once again,
retrieval of this data from the database comes from the
appointment repository that we created.
As this service is really just wrapping the calls to the repository,
you might be asking; do I really need this?
While JHipster will generate service classes for you,
you are certainly not required to leverage services,
and in cases like this you could simply just use the
repository directly in the REST controller.
Now, let's add that REST controller.
I've again opened up Eclipse to the project,
and I'm going to copy over the AppointmentResource.
java file that's found in the folder of the GitHub project
java/com/Pluralsight/patientportal/web/rest.
Copy it, move back up to the project,
and again I'll paste it in the corresponding package.
If you didn't delete that resource earlier,
you'll just have to override it here.
So now, let's talk about what this resource class contains.
I'm displaying the first part of the appointment REST
controller that was just copied over.
In the first two lines, I've annotated the class as a Spring RestController,
and I've added a RequestMapping of /api.
As I showed you earlier,
the API mapping is currently protected by Spring security by
being accessed by non-authenticated users.
This RestController will leverage the appointment
service that was added earlier.
It will also leverage a userService.
What is this userService?
This is a class that was generated for you by JHipster.
It includes about 15 behaviors on the user entity that was provided to you.
I'm going to show you how I used it in the RestController behavior shortly.
The first method on the appointment REST controller exposes an
endpoint to retrieve all appointments using an HTTP get.
As you would expect,
I'm leveraging the appointmentService that we dropped in
earlier for retrieving the appointments.
But in addition,
here I'm using the UserService to get the currently authenticated users ID.
And here we have the second method on the appointment REST controller,
which exposes an endpoint to create an appointment using an HTTP post.
The code includes some additional validation checks before leveraging
the appointment service to persist the appointment.
Once again,
I want to point out that I'm using the userService that was generated by
JHipster here to get the currently logged in user ID.
Now that the code's in place,
let's try an end to end test of the new functionality.
Note that I've already started by client and server for the demo,
so I'm not going to show you this again.
I've again opened up the browser to the homepage of the application.
Let's log in as the user account.
Now that I'm signed in,
let's navigate to that Appointments page that we created earlier,
and here we see a line of test data in the Appointments table.
This is the data that was preloaded by the Liquibase scripts.
So this validates that our get endpoint is working successfully,
let's test out the post endpoint.
I'm going to select to create a new appointment,
and let's put in some dummy data.
Start with the Reason as injury, I'll keep the Insurance Change blank,
and we'll put in a Phone Number.
Now let's click Save,
and there we see our alert that the appointment was created successfully.
We see the new line of data,
so that validates that our change worked successfully.
Now there's one more thing that I want to test.
We were able to create this data as a user,
but I want to log in as an admin and make sure that
the admin can't see this data.
So let's log out, and again I'll sign in, this time I'll sign in as an admin.
So navigate to the Appointments page, and I see no test data.
So this means it's successful.
I don't see the information that was actually added for the user,
so this validates the end to end functionality.
Everything's working as expected. Let's summarize what we learned.